---
layout: post
title: Ego
num: 13
permalink: /ego
---

# EGO

<p id="quote">“Ego is a social institution with no physical reality. The ego is simply your symbol of yourself. Just as the word water is a noise that symbolizes a certain liquid without being it, so too the idea of ego symbolizes the role you play, who you are, but it is not the same as your living organism.”</p>   
<p id="quote-author">- Alan Watts</p>    

Most of us have probably never actually stopped and thought about what the ego is. Used by philosophers and psychologists to explain our minds and sense of selves, it has a variety of complex definitions. We sometimes hear it in the context of describing someone as “egotistic”, another word for selfish.

In our context, we will use ego to describe our self-derived sense of *self*, or as Alan Watts puts it; “a symbol of yourself.” The ego is our name, our clothes, our social standing. It is everything that we feel *describes* us without *being* us - it often takes shape as a strong identification to our mind and thoughts, something that mindfulness teaches us to stray away from.

**The ego’s main motivation is that it never feels *whole***. Nothing will ever be enough to satisfy the ego, because its evolutionary purpose is to keep you alive and looking for more (food, social validation, love). However, we should recognize that this serves no purpose for us today because we can understand and adjust when we have enough.

The ego will manifest itself in our actions - for example, we might make a specific comment to get validation from a group of people we value, or we might accept a certain job for the social standing it would give us. The ego also defends itself aggressively - it feels the need to explain everything it does and be accepted for it, making most disagreements very difficult!

While these are not inherently wrong, it is important to understand when our ego is acting up so that we can recalibrate and do what we *actually* want to do!

But how can we recalibrate and calm our ego? Understand that **you have everything you need Now**. The ego operates in the past and future - it uses past pains to fuel future aspirations. It’ll tell you that your past failures need to be made up by achieving great egotistic successes moving forward.

And while this might work for a period and yield you results that you would value, we should be striving to do and to be from a place of peace and love rather than **fear of not being good enough**.

This is where the ego THRIVES - in the belief that you are not good enough. These thoughts live in all of us and keep our egos running. Without insecurity and fear, the ego cannot live on!

Admittedly, this is not something we can just tackle in a day! Understanding and calming our ego is a big part of our mindfulness practice and we should be patient with ourselves.

A great way to apply your mindfulness practice to your ego is to often remind yourself that **you are good enough as you are**. When a thought pops up that feels ego-driven, just sit with it and try to understand it for a bit! Do not reject or accept it and do not think about it too deeply - just be there with it. Slowly, your ego will transform.

If you intuitively felt that it was ego-driven, it probably was! That’s okay! And it’s also okay to not act on it, even if it meant getting a better job or more money - it’s important for you to live the life YOU want, not the one your ego is building for you.

**YOU ARE ENOUGH.**  

See you next week!  
Ethan & Martin  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VauHIuyPwkM?start=51" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
