---
layout: post
title: The Now
num: 4
permalink: /the-now
---

# THE NOW

<p id="quote">“Nothing ever happened in the past; it happened in the Now. Nothing will ever happen in the future; it will happen in the Now.”</p>   
<p id="quote-author">- Eckhart Tolle</p>   



Mindfulness is the continuous practice of directing our awareness to the present moment. But why should we care? And why is it useful?

We can only ever experience reality through the present moment. Think about it! When you were born, that was now (back then). When you brush your teeth this evening, that will also be now. The past and future are useful concepts to help us function in society, but they are not <i>real</i> - they are concepts. On a deeper level, <b>the now is all that exists</b>.

Our minds project worry and regret (among other things) to keep us away from the Now. Since these negative emotions are based on the past and future, they do not exist in the present. <b>The present moment holds only serenity and stillness.</b>

With this in mind, note that the Now is an immeasurably small moment of time. So small, that by the time you try to think about it, it’s already gone. Your mind cannot comprehend the nature of the Now. <b>You can only experience it.</b>

Consequently, creating mindful moments during our day is one of the easiest & most effective ways to explore the Now. We can do this at <b><i>any time</i></b> during <b><i>any activity</i></b> by directing our attention intensely to our physical sensations.

If you’re sitting down, <i>feel</i> your weight pushing into your seat. If you’re taking a shower, <i>feel</i> each droplet of water roll down your skin. This state of observation is effortlessly prompted by asking yourself questions about what you’re doing. For example, “am I still breathing?” will immediately enable you to notice air coming in & out of your lungs. It’s easy, <b>try it <i>now</i>!</b>

Washing your hands, doing the dishes, and walking from place to place are all great opportunities to create mindful moments. Tuning in with our bodies always begins with variations of the same question: <b>What does this instant (not this activity, this <i>microscopic</i> moment) feel like?</b>

This exercise is especially useful when we find ourselves becoming anxious or agitated. Practicing mindfulness deeply allows us to stop the momentum of negative thinking and steer our awareness (skrrt!) in a more constructive direction.

As we become more familiar with the Now, our bandwidth to experience its intensity also increases. If you are being mindful to your body for the first time, you may not feel a profound sense of stillness- but over time, you will discover more and more peace. <b>Mindful growth is often exponential - the more time we spend in the Now, the more naturally mindful we become.</b>

When we regularly enter & exit the Now, we become acutely aware of what keeps us away from it: our mind’s conditioning. If we’re frequently worrying about improving our life situation (things like relationships, work situations, achievements and social status), our belief that we are not good enough hinders us from living in the present.

The inner-work lies in identifying what our harmful beliefs may be, and modifying them to best suit what we want out of our lives. <b>Doing this work allows us to access inner-peace at will.</b>

Living exclusively in the Now is not our goal. Reflecting on the past & planning for the future are necessary elements of improving ourselves and functioning. We are simply suggesting that more awareness in the present leads to a more contented & peaceful life.

We’ve spent a lot of time discussing the necessity of inner work to become more centered. Next week, we’ll take a closer look at how this work occurs, and the relationship between our thoughts, actions, and emotions.

Take a mindful shower today. You won’t be disappointed!  
Ethan & Martin


<b>The Power of Now is an outstanding book about mindfulness and enlightenment. If today’s topic resonated with you, we highly recommend you pick it up. Take it slowly & thoughtfully. Oprah likes it too! 
[www.oprah.com/book/the-power-of-now](http://www.oprah.com/book/the-power-of-now_2?editors_pick_id=49177) </b>

