---
layout: post
title: Self-Care
num: 9
permalink: /self-care
---

# SELF-CARE

<p id="quote">“To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance.”</p>   
<p id="quote-author">- Oscar Wilde</p>   


In today’s day and age, we are bombarded with external pressures to pursue higher levels of achievement and success. Everywhere we look, it seems as though staying busy 24/7 is the “right” thing to do. It’s too easy to fall into the trap of thinking we aren’t doing or being <i>enough</i>.

We may view the success of others as a series of flawless achievements rather than the result of an entire person’s life, ups and downs included. We fall into the trap of comparing our normal, imperfect lives with our incomplete perception of theirs, and we scramble to do anything we can to feel comparable. This behavior stems from our sense of inadequacy (self-judgement).

As a result, we tend to prioritize the outside world of achievements rather than the inner world of thoughts & emotions. But if we neglect ourselves, we won’t be productive anyways! Self-care is the key to balancing our inner state with the outer world - <b>it’s rooted in sincerity and self-respect</b>.

Taking proper care of ourselves means taking steps to ensure we’re healthy and rested. Everyone has different ways of recuperating, so do what works for you! In case you need some inspiration, here are some ideas to get you going:

* Schedule some alone time (it’s okay to be alone!)
* Read a book
* Write down how you’re feeling
* Immerse yourself in music
* Go for a walk
* Just lay down for a while
* <b>Go to bed early!</b>
* Eat wholesome food
* Exercise (alone or with others)
* Stretch when you wake up in the morning
* Schedule a short meditation
* Stay hydrated!

The biggest challenge of self-care is not figuring out what you need to do, it’s <b>actually doing it</b>. Since we don’t receive external validation for taking care of ourselves, we tend to forget its importance. However, we should continually remind ourselves that self-care is a fundamental aspect of self-love. <b>We take care of the people we love, so why shouldn’t we take care of ourselves?</b>

Scheduling time on your calendar, setting a reminder on your phone, or having a friend check-in with you are great ways to hold yourself accountable to maintain a productive self-care practice. Rewarding yourself with things that you like to do is also a great way to reinforce your habit!

And remember that the purpose of self-care is to give ourselves a break - beating yourself up when you overlook your practice defeats its purpose. Take it easy!

Self-care is not only vital to keep us mentally sharp, it also affirms to ourselves that we are worthy of care. It reminds us that we are not just tools for doing, we are people with needs. Embracing this perspective deepens our understanding of the human condition in ourselves & others. 

<b>You are the most important person in your life. Of all the people in this world, you deserve your love & affection. Act like it!</b>

With love,  
Ethan & Martin  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SEfs5TJZ6Nk" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

